---
title: Internship Reflection
date: 2017-09-02 18:09:39
tags: 
- Co-op
- Internship
- Software 
---
Today, I have finished my last Co-op term at Manulife. In total I completed four Co-op terms(16 months). During these, four co-op I learnt a lot about the software industry such as communicating with customers, interacting with others and working in a team. I am going to be breaking down different companies I was working for, different contract I was doing on the side and my advice	 for other co op students .
<!--more-->

During my first Co-op term I was working for a startup called “MyProHero” at Acceleration Center. MyProHero is an E-Learning sport website that allows different athletes around the world to connect with world class coaches. They hired me as a Full-Stack Developer, even though I was not very qualify at the time I had to learn the MEAN stack while still doing the day to day activity for my job. Since I was the only active developer for the company it made me more independent and gave me an “Anything you want, I will build it attitude”. I personally found due to working at MyProHero and putting myself in uncomfortable position it made me grow and became a stronger as a developer. During, the middle of my work term, I was doing contract work at Desire2Learn, which is a learning management system. I was working and building new interactive courses and quizzes. Overall in this four months, I got to experience working at a startup environment. I get to participate in their fast pace development and their fast embracement of new technology . I also got to experience what it like to work at a large local technology(D2L) company and how different they are compared to a startup.

My next 3 co-op term working at Manulife which is an insurance company and financial services provider. These co-op terms went alot smoother as I now had experience in the software industry. During this time I was working many different project, and using many different technology ranging from C# to Nodejs. I was really surprised because on my first project they allowed me to use Angularjs + Asp .net. I thought Manulife would only used Microsoft and IBM technology but I was wrong. I found out that Manulife has their own DevOps team, who wants to embrace agile methodology and they want to see how new technology can improve Manulife workflow. During, my work term I was working with many different internal and external API. Enhancing and creating new payment process for existing application. I was also creating web application to improve accuracy, automate task, and improve the speed of user work flow. Overall, I enjoyed my co-op term working at Manulife. I learnt a lot about financial payment system, working with BSA/BA, writing and reading high level documentation and I gain a lot of confidence to speak up during meetings.

My advice for people that are currently doing a Co-op/internship is to keep on learning and programming on the side. During four Co-op term I learnt a lot just reading or building application solo or with a friend. I luckily enough for my bosses to invite me to join and participate in interviewing student. The number one issues that my boss and I had were student were not doing project outside of class. That is a big problem, how I see it is if you are passionate in your field, you will do project outside of class. It should be you want to do it not you feel force to do it. Plus I think it make you stands out compare to other student. Who only just do school work. 

To wrap everything up, I strongly believe if you have an opportunity to do an internship/co-op you should do it. It opens many doors, gives you a lot of connection, and gives you a head start compared to your other peers who did not do an internship/co-op when you are trying to find a full time job. Plus get can get paid while getting experience! If you have any other question, comment below or email me at mrwilliampring@gmail.com or wp@williampring.com .